Hebb Learning and Processing Speed task

Generated in Tatool(https://www.tatool-web.com/) using javascript and HTML. The Hebbian Learning task with visuospatial stimuli is based on that used in Musfeld, Oberauer & Souza (2023). The Processing speed task with shape stimuli has been used often by Claudia von Bastian and is based on that used in the ESRC-funded ORA project: "Cognitive training effects across the adult lifespan: a diffusion modelling approach."

Visuospatial Hebbian Learning Task: participants will be presented with dark grey placeholder squares on a grey background. One by one, each square will be populated with a coloured square, which will be displayed for 200ms. This square will then disappear, and the next coloured square will be presented. This is repeated until 6 squares have been presented, for a total duration of 1200ms. Once the final square has been presented, all squares will be displayed with a white placeholder square. Participants will then be cued with a dark grey placeholder square to the location of the first square they were presented with and are asked to recall the colour of that square by pressing the corresponding colour on the colour bar at the bottom of the screen. They will be tested on all locations in the order they were presented in. Once they have provided their final response, feedback will be provided whereby correct responses will have their location filled in green and incorrect responses filled in grey. Unbeknownst to them, on average every 4th trial will be a repeated (Hebb) sequence (red, black, magenta, blue, cyan, orange). All other trials are random and un-repeated sequences (filler trials). Participants will complete 4 practice trials followed by 80 test trials. The test takes approximately 15 minutes to complete.

Processing Speed Task: participants are presented with an object which they are to classify in terms of its shape (whether it is curvy or spikey) as quickly and accurately as possible by pressing the corresponding keys on their keyboard. If the object is spikey, participants should press the L key, and if the object is curvy, they should press the A key. Participants will complete 5 practice trials followed by 160 test trials. This task should take around 15 minutes to complete.
